Ryan Martin
Dr. Mullen
CS 5001
12/05/2018


Did you attempt to make your computer player very smart -- i.e., do something more clever than just pick
a random legal move?

Rather than just implementing a naive AI with a random number generator, I chose to take the "high road"
and create an algorithm which would serve as a decision tree. This decision tree is
essentially a group of booleans which the AI can execute given certain conditions, such as a when there are
available valid moves at certain locations. These certain locations include a ranking system with the best 
moves possible listed at the top of the boolean function ("decision tree"). The best moves are considered
corners and edges because these spots on the board usually result in the highest scoring moves to win the game.

If so, were you able to accomplish this? Is your computer player as smart as you would like?

I believe I was somewhat able to accomplish this because the AI can beat a human player if the human
player does not use a strategy of capturing edges and corners. In fact, playing this AI without that strategy
would result in a loss. 

How did you determine which piece to play next? Tell us about your “pick next move” algorithm

The AI algorithm worked like this:
get list of valid moves on 2D grid.
for all valid moves on 2D grid:
if there is a corner open, place piece on corner
if there is an edge open, place piece on edge
if there is a space near the edge open, place piece near edge
-capture pieces will be flipped
-player will go again if no valid moves for other player are available

How often did your computer program beat you, or your friends, or whoever tested it out for you?

The computer program beat me a few times at first, but after I started using the computer's strategy 
I started winning. I let my wife play the game, and she actually enjoyed playing it. I hope you'll 
have fun playing it as well. 

How would you improve it in the future?

I would try to make the graphics better by making the player pieces more three dimensional. I also
noticed that in the online game of Othello there is a feature where a shadow lights up a valid square
to make the game easier on the player. I think that would be an interesting method to create when 
I have more time to work on this. 